---
title: "78741 Homes for Sale - 78741 Real Estate"
source_url: "https://spyglassrealty.com/78741-house"
category: "Zip Code"
extracted_date: "2024-02-24"
---

## 78741 Homes and Condos for Sale

Browse the top 78741 Homes and Condos for sale. For further information regarding 78741 properties for sale, including prior sales history, price changes, property disclosures and more, or to request a private condo showing, [connect]( /contact.php) with your LOCAL real estate experts today!

## 78741 House

Click the links below to sort results by price range.

- All Listings

- [Under $100,000](/78741-house/under-100000/)

- [$100,000 - $200,000](/78741-house/100000-200000/)

- [$200,000 - $300,000](/78741-house/200000-300000/)

- [$300,000 - $400,000](/78741-house/300000-400000/)

- [$400,000 - $500,000](/78741-house/400000-500000/)

- [$500,000 - $600,000](/78741-house/500000-600000/)

- [$600,000 - $700,000](/78741-house/600000-700000/)

- [$700,000 - $800,000](/78741-house/700000-800000/)

- [$800,000 - $900,000](/78741-house/800000-900000/)

- [Over $1,000,000](/78741-house/over-1000000/)

In recent years when it comes to rating the best places to live, best places for career growth, and best places to move in America, Austin, Texas, has been constant in the top. Amenities, culture, and livability make Austin a desirable place to live in. Families, young adults, singles, couples, and retirees have been drawn to the fast-growing city since then.

Austin is one of the most moderate-expensive metropolitan cities yet affordable than Brooklyn, Manhattan, and San Francisco. The tech industry in the area is thriving with plenty of tech startups and large tech companies building their campuses within the grounds. The city has earned the nickname of Silicon Hills due to the tech talents flocking to Austin. Dell, Google, Apple, and Oracle are some of the tech giants with headquarters and regional offices in Austin.

78741 is a neighborhood located to the southeast of [Downtown Austin](/downtown-austin.php). It is one of the [best places to invest in Austin](/blog/5-next-best-places-in-austin-to-buy-an-investment-property.html) due to the strong presence of University of Austin students in some of the neighborhoods in the area as well as close proximity to employers around the zip code. More new home and condo constructions have emerged in this area due to the accessibility and convenience of the neighborhood to its surrounding suburbs.

Many of 78741 homes for sale are surrounded by dining, shopping, and entertainment opportunities. Residents can enjoy a variety of restaurants, retail stores parks, best and greenbelts as well as access to the entertainment districts by Downtown Austin.